# War
A browser based implementation of a simple board game for two players. The frontend client uses the HTML5 canvas API. The backend uses AWS Lambda and DynamoDB to expose serverless endpoints.

## Rules
**War** (temporary name) is a game for two players, played on a 13 by 13 grid. Each player controls 13 pieces, each of which has two attributes: **Strength** and **Health**. The objective of the game is to detroy all of your opponents pieces by reducing their health to zero.

### Setup phase
Before the game begins, each player is given their pieces and must decide on their starting configuration. The distribution of strength values across a player's 13 pieces must be the same for both players, but can be varied for different game experiences. Each player must place all 13 of their pieces on their own half of the board. The centre (7th) row cannot be used by either player during this phase. This gives each player 6 rows on which to arrange their pieces. The player's cannot see each other's halves of the board during this phase. Once both players are happy with their arrangements, they can move on to the play phase.

### Play Phase
At this point, the whole board becomes visible to both players. Play proceeds in turns: On each turn, both players decide on actions for as many or few of their pieces as desired. No actions are performed until both players have decided on all their actions for that turn, and each player's actions are secret from the other player until this point. An action is either moving or attacking. Both of these actions can only be applied to the 8 squares surrounding a piece. For movement, the targeted square must not be occupied by another piece, and cannot be the target of movement for another of that player's pieces. For attacking, the targeted square must contain an enemy piece. Once both players have chosen their actions, the actions are applied. First, attacks are performed. For each attack, the health of the targeted piece is reduced by the strength of the attacking piece. Once all attacks have been performed, any pieces whose health has been reduced to less than or equal to zero is removed from the game. Next, moves are applied. When applying movement, an unplanned attack occurs when two pieces from opposing sides attempt to move to the same square. When this happens, both pieces have their health reduced by half the strength of the opposing piece (rounded up). If neither piece is destroyed as a result of this attack, neither piece moves. If one piece is destroyed, the surviving piece moves to their target square. After all movements and unplanned attacks have been applied, the turn is complete. If either player has no pieces remaining, the other player is declared the winner, and the game ends. If both players are left with no pieces remaining, the game is a draw.

